# My Portfolio

## A Very Brief History of the Internet
The 1960s saw the birth of the what would become the internet we know today, ARPANET or the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network, it was developed so scientists could communicate during the cold war and data could be shared across multiple computers mainly to prevent losing all data should one of the computers fail. The very first message was sent in 1969, the same year as the Moon Landing. The message was "Login" but only "Lo" made it, it was still a great achievement for the time.<br/><br/>Skip to the 80s, Vinton Cerf had already invented a method to communicate globally, called Transmission Control Protocol, and was followed by IP(Internet Protocol). Then scientists developed Cerf's Protocol to send data back and forth and then the 90s happened and Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web we use today. <br/><br/>It was a revolution, it wasn't just for scientists now, it was for everyone. Erwise was invented in '92 and it was the first browser to have a graphical interface. It lead the way and in '95 Netscape Navigator became the most popular browser of the time accomodating 90% of global traffic. Dial-up became a thing, it used your phone line to connect to the internet hence the name "dial up" and it meant that you couldn't use the phone and surf the web simultaneously. The rest we are all familiar with, Facebook, Youtube, News, Twitter, the ability to know anything in seconds without having to read a book or even talk to someone.<br/><br/>FYI the first thing ever purchased on the internet was a Pizza. Where would we be without it!

## The Fundamentals of Web Browsing
Domains, DNS' and Web Host. A brief explanation. <br/><br/>If you want to host anything on the internet you'll need those these three things. A domain is the first thing, simple www.facebook.com is the domain name for Facebook and it needs to be registered every year. <br/><br/>DNS is next and it is the configuration records for your domain name, it has a few elements, "A" record and it points to your web hosting, an "MX" record tells the domain name where to send the emails that go to your domain name eg "office365".<br/><br/>Lastly, Web server and it needs a web host and it is all the files that make up your website stored on a server, typically the server is in a data center. Rarely will a small business have the server located at their workplace.

## Aspect of the Internet I feel has changed our lives
Digital Marketing, it has exploded and changed the way we consume advertising and do our shopping. For decades the formula for marketing was the same in the sense that there were only so many slots in the newspaper on tv or on billboards and the fees and premiums for being on there were driven up by the demand. <br/><br/>When social media came along, suddenly there was an oversupply of space on the internet for your ads and they were highly effective ads because the sites could track the information about their users and companies could specifically buy slots on webpages that were being shown to their target audience, whereas in traditional media a slot on the tv cost an arm and a leg and there was no guarantee it was being shown to the right people or that they were even paying attention to it.